Legends thrive in every place and age.
They are told around the campfires of shepherds and the fountains of nobles; they drift through the consciousness of one age and pass on to the next.
Always changing as times and tellers change, yet they have an odd persistence, coming back to the same themes again and again.
Legends connect an endless multitude of listeners to a common dream, and thereby to each other; they knit together the fabric of culture.

This is a tale of the Age of Spirits; told by merchants and travellers, warriors and sages, it has fragmented into a thousand variations.
Whether sung by a bard to a tavern of strangers or repeated by a grandmother to a circle of children, it has captured the imagination of audiences across the lands.
And so, in this Age of The Sun, let me tell you a story both new and old, both remembered and forgotten: The Legend of the Tree of Life and Death...

\sep

In the Age of Spirits, a kingdom called Haareng stretched along the coast of the Twighlight Ocean, from the Bay of Firs in the north to the Giant's Forest in the south.
Its people were prosperous, tilling fertile land and trading with other nations along the coast.
Its capitol, Amerel, was a bustling port at the mouth of the Veren River, and it was said that treasures from across the world were collected there by King Ogin.

Although the vaults of King Ogin were said to contain countless wonders, the king's most prized possession was kept not in a locked chest, but in the king's garden.
Amidst exotic flowers and lush grasses there grew a gnarled tree, leafless branches stretching in all directions.
This was the Tree of Life and Death, known better by its other name, the Tree of Wishes.
Although it showed no outward sign of life, the tree nonetheless gave an impression of overwhelming vitality, such that no-one who saw it doubted that it still lived.

According to the people of Amerel, the Tree of Wishes was a vital national treasure.
Hadn't the king used it to end the drought four years ago, and to stop the flooding before that?
No-one knew exactly how, but the tree surely granted wishes, perhaps to those who ate its fruit, or smelled its flowers.
When the island raiders were plaguing the coast, hadn't a sudden storm decimated their fleet?
And before that, when the giants came out of their forest, the previous king had convinced them to return.
If not for the Tree of Wishes, all of Haareng might be destroyed, but because of it, it would surely continue to prosper.

Every spring, the royal gardeners would inspect the tree thoroughly, looking for any sign of new life.
In living memory, the tree had only sprouted twelve times, each time growing a new branch which bore leaves, then in the next year a single flower which would mature into a fruit.
So when it was announced that a new branch had sprouted, the people of Amerel rejoiced, and the news spread throughout the kingdom and beyond.
Passed from traveller to merchant, travelling with caravans across deserts and crossing oceans on ships, the news spread wide and far...

\sep

The news of the sprouting of the Tree of Wishes reached all the way across the continent to the port city of Ulms-Iber on the Dawnssea, capitol of the country of Kolum.
It had been a dusty year in Ulms-Iber, full of petty arguments and not-great news, so a hopeful rumor was well-received, even if it was no more than that.
Haareng and the Twilight Ocean were so far from Kolum that to most in Ulms-Iber, the news of the sprouting sounded like something from a fairy-tale.
But there were those who took it seriously:
Travelling merchants asked each other for information about Haareng, nobles considered the political implications, and in a quiet corner of the city, someone started preparing for a very long journey.

But who would start a journey based on little more than a myth?
What kind of person would consider leaving behind even an uncomfortable life to journey across a continent?


\begin{enumerate}
  \item \textbf{Perhaps someone whose life was more than merely uncomfortable? Someone desperate enough that the rumor of a wish seemed a better prospect than what Ulms-Iber had to offer?}

  \item Perhaps someone whose life was too comfortable, who longed for a taste of adventure and perhaps didn't comprehend what that really meant? Someone who wasn't afraid to leave a life behind because they took it completely for granted?

  \item Perhaps someone with a strong sense of duty? Someone who had the best interests of a nation at heart, and who saw no alternative to a desperate chance?
\end{enumerate}
