*temp say_no false

Arel decided that the Westgate was the safest option: being close to the Stumbling Boar was a risk but it also meant she could leave more quickly, and it was the right direction to reach Haareng, she thought. She headed for the Westgate, taking twisting alleys and side lanes to avoid notice as much as possible.

When she reached the gate, she slumped down near the mouth of an alleyway with a clear view of the traffic, just another beggar in a city full of them.
The guards at the gate were clearly not too serious about their duties, waving most traffic through without so much as a word.
They even seemed to have a flagon of wine in the guardhouse at the gate, which she saw passed out to the two guards on duty once in a while.
She watched patiently as the traffic passed by:
Carts loaded with merchandise both entering and leaving the city, some solitary travellers with walking staves wearing long robes against the heat, a few peasants from the fields outside with some business in the city, and even a group of pilgrims with broad hats and intricate pendants.

She had to think of a way to get through the gate without attracting the notice of the guards.
They doubtless had some part in king Lom's business, just like her, and if they grew too suspicious she'd end up like Oli.
She immediately wished she had asked him which gate he had tried to leave by, but all she could do now was hope it hadn't been the Westgate.
Thinking about the traffic through the gate, she decided she had a few options, although she didn't exactly like any of them:

*choice
  #She could try to tag along at the back of a caravan passing through. The carts were big and dusty and the guards might not notice an extra person at the end of the line. Caravans always had plenty of guards and laborers walking alongside, but her clothes would stand out, and if the people of the caravan noticed her they might suspect she was trying to rob them and turn her in.
    *goto follow_caravan
  #She could ask to join a band of pilgrims, if another group passed by. She didn't know much about the Spirits, but she had heard that pilgrims usually traveled in open groups and welcomed any who wanted to join them. The guards would probably be hesitant to stop someone on a religious mission, and the pilgrims weren't likely to immediately report her even if they wouldn't let her join them.
    *goto join_pilgrims
  #She could pretend to be on king Lom's business outside the walls. She was pretty confident that the gate guards were in his pay one way or another, and they'd probably let her through, but they'd almost certainly report the incident to their superiors, and she didn't know whether they'd send someone to follow her or not. If she was lucky, nobody would care enough to bother coming after her once she was gone.
    *goto fool_guards

*comment -----------------------------------------------------------------------
*label follow_caravan

Arel waited what seemed like forever for another large caravan to approach the gates.
Five carts drawn by oxen with a drover each, accompanied by a dozen or so guards and a pair of merchants at the front, as well as a half-dozen porters spread out along the line.

As soon as she left her spot in the alley to trail behind the caravan, Arel felt exposed.
She tried to stay far enough from the last cart that the caravan guards would think she just happened to be going the same direction, but near enough that the gate guards might assume she was another hanger-on.
About halfway to the gate one of the guards accompanying the last cart noticed her and gave her a hard stare.
She looked down and continued trudging forward, slowing a bit and hoping that the guard would ignore her.

The front of the caravan reached the gate, and she stopped as the merchants talked to the guards.
The gate guards didn't bother to inspect each cart, so the caravan got moving again quickly.
Perhaps the Westgate had been a good choice after all.
The carts ahead of her proceeded smoothly out through the gate, and she was moving again.
One hundred paces to the gate, then fifty.
Suddenly she heard a hoarse laugh from the guardhouse, its owner unmistakable despite the effects of a morning spent drinking.
Why would [i]Milo[/i] possibly be here?

Arel froze for barely a second, but that was enough to attract the attention of one of the gate guards.

“Hey—” the gate guard looked from her to the last wagon of the caravan, already halfway through the gate.
The guard who had seen her earlier looked back and shrugged his shoulders.
Both gate guards took a step towards her, and glanced at each other.
At that moment, the door of the gatehouse opened and Milo stepped out, holding a flagon of wine.
“Do you fiiine fellows want some mor—” he broke off mid-sentence, as he saw Arel, his eyes going wide.
*goto staring_at

*comment -----------------------------------------------------------------------
*label join_pilgrims

TODO: HERE!

*comment -----------------------------------------------------------------------
*label fool_guards

Arel approached the guards alone, wearing her beggar's rags.
She chose to approach a few hundred feet ahead of a caravan, so the guards wouldn't have much time to think about their decisions.
Her heart almost leapt into her throat when she saw them immediately take note of her approach.
This wasn't going to be easy.

“Now where do you think you're going, fisher?” the words were like ice-water on her spine.
Dressed as a beggar, why would they know she was a thief?
She didn't recognize either of the guards at the gate...
Had Milo already told them to look out for her?
That shouldn't be possible; he had been gone when she left and she wouldn't even be expected back at the Stumbling Boar by now.
She wasn't about to abandon her plan now though.

Even as a familiar feeling of futility settled over her, she said “The king told me to visit someone out in the fields.”

“So even a beggar like you can get an audience with the king himself?” the guard laughed in a nasty way.
His partner eyed the approaching caravan, but the first guard called out in the direction of the gatehouse:

“Hey Milo, some see what we've got over here!”
Arel found herself horrified for the second time in their short conversation.
Sure enough, Milo appeared at the entrance to the guardhouse, holding the flagon of wine.

“You want sh'more already, you greedy bastards?” he yelled, before focusing his bleary eyes on the person standing at the gate.
Suddenly he seemed to become a lot more sober.
*goto staring_at

*comment -----------------------------------------------------------------------
*label staring_at
Staring directly at Arel from not more than twenty paces away, he said in a cold, almost quiet voice:

“Come here now.”
*set say_no true
*goto run

*comment -----------------------------------------------------------------------
*label run
*line_break

Arel felt suddenly calm.
The despair that had been clinging to her a second ago was somehow gone, all she felt was purpose and a sense of simplicity.
She was no longer living in the world of yesterday where Milo's word was absolute.
She was living in a new world where she was going to go to Haareng and claim a wish.
*if say_no
  With calm, serious eyes, she said one word, “No,” and then she ran.
  *goto after_say_no
*else
  She looked at the guards and took a breath as if about to make a reply, and then she started to run.
  *goto after_say_no
*label after_say_no
The gates were open, the guards weren't expecting it, and before they had even turned to see where she was her foot had touched down outside the walls.

She was hungry and exhausted, but her body felt light as a feather, and her head was filled with a single thought: run.
She didn't look back; didn't see whatever happened behind her, barely even heard shouts and sounds of pursuit.
For a few minutes after the initial seconds she heard heavy boots and panting breath behind her, and even Milo's voice shouting “Arel!” but fueled by an oddly overwhelming sense of rightness she ran on, head down, bare feet pounding on the dry road, adrenaline filling her veins.
The guards were wearing armor and soon found that they couldn't keep up.
Milo should have been able to chase her down: he was a strong man, and she was a half-starved teen, but he'd gone through more than a flagon of strong wine with his friends that morning, and he'd been drinking more than they had.

He wasn't going to give up easily though, and Arel found that her initial burst of speed was fading.
She started gasping for breath, her legs and lungs suddenly felt like they were on fire.
Milo was a good distance behind but he hadn't stopped, and she found she couldn't keep up a full sprint.
Loping now and gulping air, she found her exhilaration being slowly replaced by fear, but she kept going.
She focused all of her thoughts on running, willing her uncooperative legs to keep moving.
The running had turned from a dream into a nightmare, but she kept going.

Finally, having pushed her body to its limits, she dropped to the ground.
Milo was nowhere to be seen, but the idea that she had actually escaped seemed ridiculous.
She crawled to the ditch at the side of the road and lay in the dust, coughing and choking.
Even thinking felt like a monumental effort, so she just lay there.

It wasn't until she opened her eyes that she realized she had lost consciousness.
She was immediately assaulted by a combination of exhaustion, pain, thirst, hunger, and fear.
She didn't know how far she had run, or how long had passed since she'd crawled into the ditch, but she knew she couldn't stay where she was.

Looking around, she found her surroundings completely alien.
Open land stretched away for what seemed like forever; crops growing on either side of the road.
She could still see the city, and when she looked back it appeared both frighteningly close and endlessly distant.
She had never been this far from a building in her life.

There were farmhouses spaced along the road, and nearby something that looked like a run-down shack.
A little ways ahead the road turned to skirt a bit of marshy land, and in the distance ahead she could see foothills rising to meet mountains, but mostly her surroundings seemed simply empty.

Her body seemed to decide that she had had enough time to look around, and insisted that her biggest problem right now was thirst.
Her throat felt lined with dust, and even crouching on the ground, she felt a bit faint and dizzy.
She didn't see anything that looked like a well nearby, so she only had two options:

TODO: AFTER THIS!
*comment *choice
*comment   #She could drag herself to the nearest farmhouse and beg for water. Surely that wasn't too much to grant a stranger. It might make following her trail easier, but was that really such an important concern right now?
*comment   #She could head towards the swampy area ahead and look for a puddle to drink from. It certainly didn't sound appealing, but in her present condition, she wasn't sure if she could deal with human contact, and the bushes growing in the low land might leave her a little less exposed than she was currently.


She gathered her energy and stumbled onwards in the dry ditch.
It took her far longer than she had expected to reach the bend in the road, and when she got there, she didn't see any standing water.
There ground was soggy in places though, and she wound up pulling up clumps of dirt and grass and squeezing precious drops of muddy water into her mouth.
The scrawny bushes growing in the small marsh did little to ease her feeling of exposure, but at least she couldn't see the Westgate directly from where she was any more.

She found herself chewing on some moss and thought about food.
Immediately she remembered, as if crystal clear, the moment at the gate when she had started running.
In that desperate instant, the vegetables she had stolen from the careless merchant in the city had been forgotten, and for all she knew they were still lying on the ground before the gate, crushed into the dust beneath the hooves of oxen and the wheels of caravans.
Her mood returned to a familiar darkness, but at least she no longer felt dizzy and faint.
Just exhausted, hungry, and afraid.

She realized reluctantly that her hunger would have to wait.
She was no stranger to skipping meals, and the most pressing problem was being discovered by Milo or someone he sent after her.
She knew that she wouldn't be able to travel much father, either, so she'd have to find some way to hide herself.
Stuffing handfuls of wet moss into the pockets of her tattered robe, she considered her options.

TODO: HERE
*comment *choice
*comment   #She could crawl into a nearby field and hope that she wasn't discovered. Some of the crops were high enough already to cover her from the road if she lay down, and there were far too many farm plots along the road for anyone to search them thoroughly.
*comment   #She could sneak into a barn or farm shack and try to hide there, but if someone was looking for her they might go so far as to check buildings along the road. The idea of being surrounded by walls was appealing to her though.
*comment   #She could try to walk further on the road and see if a better hiding place presented itself, but she could see pretty far in this flat country and nothing obvious lay on the road ahead.

Arel decided that hiding in a field would be the safest option.
Not far ahead was a field with some waist-high grass growing in it, so she approached it and carefully walked along the edge without disturbing the plants.
The green stalks were planted too closely for her to slip amongst them, so she walked away from the main road until she came to the far edge of the field.

A thin track separated that field from the next, and to her dismay she saw that the next field was growing some kind of flower, which barely came halfway to her knees.
Sleeping there she'd be hidden from the road, but completely exposed to anyone coming from the other direction.
Still, she lay down to test the hiding spot and she couldn't actually see any farmhouses from it directly.
When she thought about getting up again and finding a better spot, the fact that she was already prone quickly became quite convincing.

Exhausted and hungry, her mouth full of dirt and uncertain of what to expect from the next day, she finally let sleep take her.
Based on physical exertion alone she should have slept quite soundly, but the strange environment and a thousand nagging doubts made her sleep fitful, not to mention the insects.
Between the unfamiliar night noises of the countryside and a host of nightmares, she found herself constantly jerking awake, but as soon as she did so, her fatigue would drag her back to sleep.
When morning finally came, she stared blearily at the brightening sky in confusion for a minute before she realized what it meant:
Today was her first day outside the city.
