In the Age of Spirits, a kingdom called Haareng stretched along the coast of the Twighlight Ocean, from the Bay of Firs in the north to the Giant's Forest in the south.
Its people were prosperous, tilling fertile land and trading with other nations along the coast.
Its capitol, Amerel, was a bustling port at the mouth of the Veren River, and it was said that treasures from across the world were collected there by King Ogin.

Although the vaults of King Ogin were said to contain countless wonders, the king's most prized possession was kept not in a locked chest, but in the king's garden.
Amidst exotic flowers and lush grasses there grew a gnarled tree, leafless branches stretching in all directions.
This was the Tree of Life and Death, known better by its other name, the Tree of Wishes.
Although it showed no outward sign of life, the tree nonetheless gave an impression of overwhelming vitality, such that no-one who saw it doubted that it still lived.

According to the people of Amerel, the Tree of Wishes was a vital national treasure.
Hadn't the king used it to end the drought four years ago, and to stop the flooding before that?
No-one knew exactly how, but the tree surely granted wishes, perhaps to those who ate its fruit, or smelled its flowers.
When the island raiders were plaguing the coast, hadn't a sudden storm decimated their fleet?
And before that, when the giants came out of their forest, the previous king had convinced them to return.
If not for the Tree of Wishes, all of Haareng might be destroyed, but because of it, it would surely continue to prosper.

Every spring, the royal gardeners would inspect the tree thoroughly, looking for any sign of new life.
In living memory, the tree had only sprouted twelve times, each time growing a new branch which bore leaves, then in the next year a single flower which would mature into a fruit.
So when it was announced that a new branch had sprouted, the people of Amerel rejoiced, and the news spread throughout the kingdom and beyond.
Passed from traveller to merchant, travelling with caravans across deserts and crossing oceans on ships, the news spread wide and far...
