Content
  content/ -
    Action, goal, potential, and setup definitions, as well as actors and
    items.
  the_party.lp -
    Rules for the starting state of the player's party.
  settings.lp -
    The different possible settings.

Other
  utils.lp -
    Various useful rules and some Python code, including a system for
    generating unique handles.

Representational constraints
  actions.lp -
    The association between actions and options, binding of arguments and
    outcomes, and the determination of consequences based on outcome values.
  actors.lp -
    Unpacking for actor definitions, and the top level of the actors ontology.
  core.lp -
    Constraints that define the basic structure of things (what an option is,
    events vs. choices, etc.). Building blocks for defining things like states
    and actions, for example exclusivity of states and reflexivity of actions.
    The bones of the ontology code: being an instance of a class, subclasses
    and super-classes, etc.
  grow.lp - 
    Node statuses and ordering, the creation of new nodes and state transfer
    between nodes; state matching. 
  items.lp -
    Unpacking for item definitions, having a tool for a skill, and communal
    ownership for trading purposes.
  potential.lp -
    Rules that support the idea of potentials. Resolution methods, initiators,
    urgency/immediacy, and importance. The idea of unresolved and hidden
    potentials.
  settings.lp -
    Setting/scene association.
  setup.lp -
    Rules for unpacking setups and creating/editing associated states.
  skills.lp -
    Definitions for each skill (although skill links are specified by actions).
  surface.lp -
    Surface properties.

Constituent constraints
  actions.lp -
    Limits interactions with incapacitated/off-stage actors.
  choice_structure.lp -
    Definition of option relevance and requirement that options be relevant and
    each important potential be addressed. Prohibits redundant options.
    Establishes the concept of motivation and requires it. Prohibits boring and
    duplicate events and trick options. Constraints that keep the action moving
    and prevent problems from repeating or being ignored. Also prevents setups
    from repeating and requires some setup variety.
  vignettes.lp -
    The concept of a vignette and vignette transitions.

Aesthetic constraints
  choice_structure.lp -
    Enforces some aspects of narrative perspective (protagonists as initiators
    of options at choices and others for events).

Poetic constraints
  actions.lp -
    Definition of 'surprising' outcomes based on likely/unlikely outcomes.
  choice_structure.lp -
    Constraints on story length and number of choices.
  eval.lp -
    Expectations, perceived and actual stakes, option feels, option structures,
    outcome perceptions, outcome predictabilities, and outcome feels.
  goals.lp -
    Player goals; apparent guilt of characters.
  skills.lp -
    Likely and unlikely outcomes based on skill links; skill and tool relevance.
